# CS_340_Client-Server_Development

You can create a program that is maintainable, readable, and adaptable by creating code that is versatile. For instance, in this project a Python module was created with a class that could create, read, update, and delete objects from our database. This module could be implemented in various different programs, here we used it in a dashboard. Doing this also means if there is something that needs to be changed it only needs to be done in one place. By avoiding repetitive code, you can create cleaner programs. In the future this Python module could be used again, perhaps in an app rather than a website. 

As a computer scientist I try to approach problems by breaking them down. For instance, the dashboard had many different parts to it making it seem quite overwhelming at first.  By breaking the dashboard into different parts such as the title of the page, data table, and charts, the dashboard was much more manageable. It also made trouble shooting easier as I did not create the whole thing at once. I made it in little parts and ran it every time I added functionality. This allowed me to easily see where problems were coming from so I could focus on fixing rather than trying to find the problem. In the future I will continue to use this strategy as it makes coding more efficient. This would also help meet client requests as working in parts allows you to make a road map of all the functionality that needs to be applied. This road map allows one to be more organized and less likely to miss a client request. 

Computer scientists create functionality based on the needs of users and clients. This is important as without clients and users there would be no need for the programs in the first place. Because of this it is the computer scientist’s top priority to create programs that are functional and user friendly. This type of work would help Grazioso Salvare by making it easier for them to search for animals that match their criteria. This saves them time by filtering through animals rather than making them manually sort through hundreds of animals. The goal is also to make it user friendly so that workers at Grazioso Salvare can quickly learn how to use the system. 
